msal-net-xamarin-android-considerations.md - Updates to Xamarin android support (#71182)
Azure/azure-content: articles/active-directory/develop/msal-net-xamarin-android-considerations.md

}
```

> ## Update the Android Manifest for System Browser Support 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Update the Android manifest for system browser support 
```

* Sentence-style casing for all headings
* If "system browser" here is the same as the System WebView, you could instead use that and capitalize as it's a proper name

> ## Update the Android Manifest for System WebView Support 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Update the Android Manifest for System WebView support 
```

> The *AndroidManifest.xml* file should contain the following values for system browser support:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support the system browser, the *AndroidManifest.xml* file should contain the following values:
```

Always present the goal first, then the how/what/why.

* Better scannability: Easier to spot relevant content when scanning instead of reading (which is nearly everyone).
* Simplification/concision: Having to read less to find out if it's a thing you need to pay attention to is always good. If I don't need to support the system the reader can bail halfway through the sentence. Like in code, you want to fail fast.

```xml
<activity android:name="microsoft.identity.client.BrowserTabActivity" android:configChanges="orientation|screenSize">
  <intent-filter>
    <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW" />
    <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
    <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />
    <data android:scheme="msal{Client Id}" android:host="auth" />
  </intent-filter>
</activity>
```

> The ``android:scheme`` is created from the redirect URI configured in the application portal. So if your redirect URI is ``msal4a1aa1d5-c567-49d0-ad0b-cd957a47f842://auth`` The ``android:scheme`` should be:

Reviewer: Double backticks?

  }
```

### Use System WebView in brokered authentication

> In order to use System WebView as a fallback for interactive authentication when you have configured your application to use brokered authentication and the device does not have broker installed, you can enable MSAL to capture the authentication response using the brokers redirect URI. MSAL will try to authenticate using the default System WebView on the device when it detects that the broker is unavailable and will fail out of the box because the redirect URI is configured for broker and the System WebView does not know how to use it to navigate back to MSAL. To resolve this, you can configure what is known as an intent filter with the broker redirect URI that you configured previously. You will need to modify your application's manifest to add the intent filter as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use System WebView as a fallback for interactive authentication when you've configured your application to use brokered authentication and the device doesn't have a broker installed, enable MSAL to capture the authentication response using the broker's redirect URI. MSAL will try to authenticate using the default System WebView on the device when it detects that the broker is unavailable and will fail out of the box because the redirect URI is configured for broker and the System WebView doesn't know how to use it to navigate back to MSAL. To resolve this, configure what is known as an _intent filter_ with the broker redirect URI that you configured previously. Add the intent filter by modifying your application's manifest as shown below.
```

* Shortening the (still quite lengthy) first sentence and fixing grammar issue
* Adding some directness (_do this_ instead of _you can do this_)

```xml
<!-- Required for API Level 30 to make sure the app can detect browsers and other apps where communication is needed.-->
<!--https://developer.android.com/training/basics/intents/package-visibility-use-cases-->
<queries>
  <package android:name="com.azure.authenticator" />
  <package android:name="{Package Name}" />
  <package android:name="com.microsoft.windowsintune.companyportal" />
  <!-- Required for API Level 30 to make sure the app detect browsers
      (that don't support custom tabs) -->
  <intent>
    <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW" />
    <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />
    <data android:scheme="https" />
  </intent>
  <!-- Required for API Level 30 to make sure the app can detect browsers that support custom tabs -->
  <!-- https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2020/07/custom-tabs-android-11#detecting_browsers_that_support_custom_tabs -->
  <intent>
    <action android:name="android.support.customtabs.action.CustomTabsService" />
  </intent>
</queries>
``` 

Replace `{Package Name}` with the application package name. 

> Your completed manifest that $DOES_THING_HERE should appear similar to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your completed manifest that enables support for the system browser and brokered authentication should appear similar to the following:
```

Oops, sorry @trwalke, didn't mean for you to include the actual `$DOES_THING_HERE` token. My intent there was to be more specific about what the completed manifest does/now includes/etc.

  }
```

> ### System Browser Support in Brokered Authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### System browser support in brokered authentication

```

* Sentence-style casing in all headings
* Newline after all headings (linter check)
* Consider rewording this heading to be more intent-based - see https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/pull/71182#discussion_r585868986, https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/pull/71182#discussion_r585887423, https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/pull/71182#discussion_r585889555

> If you are using the system browser for interactive authentication, it is possible you will have configured your application to use brokered authentication when the device does not have broker installed. In this scenario, MSAL will try to authenticate using the default system browser in the device. This will fail out of the box because the redirect URI is configured for broker and the system browser would know how to use it to navigate back to MSAL. To resolve this, you can configure what is known as an intent filter with the broker redirect URI that you used in step four. You will need to modify your application's manifest to add the intent filter as shown below.

Reviewer: > If you are using the system browser for interactive authentication, it is possible you will have configured your application to use brokered authentication when the device does not have broker installed.

Reword this whole paragraph to be more *intent-based*. Again: goal first, _then_ the what/why/how. First address or note what the developer trying to do, then tell them how to accomplish that goal.

> configure what is known as an intent filter with the broker redirect URI that you used in step four

Which "step four" is this referring to?

```XML
<!--Intent filter to capture System Browser or Authenticator calling back to our app after sign-in-->
<activity
      android:name="microsoft.identity.client.BrowserTabActivity">
    <intent-filter>
          <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW" />
          <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
          <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />
          <data android:scheme="msauth"
              android:host="Enter_the_Package_Name"
              android:path="/Enter_the_Signature_Hash" />
    </intent-filter>
</activity>
```

Substitute the package name that you registered in the Azure portal for the `android:host=` value. Substitute the key hash that you registered in the Azure portal for the `android:path=` value. The signature hash should *not* be URL encoded. Ensure that a leading forward slash (`/`) appears at the beginning of your signature hash.

> ### Android 11 Support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Android 11 support
```

In order to utilize the system browser on Android 11 you must first declare the packages needed by the application in the AndroidManifest.xml to access them due to changes Android introduced with Android 11 around package-visibility for apps that are targeting SDK 30.

> Adding the following to the AndroidManifest.xml will enable the application to authenticate with both the system browser and broker:

Reviewer 2: >the following  [](start = 7, length = 14)

perhaps highlight the delta between 10 (and before) and 11?

> Apps targeting android 10 (API 29) and below were able to query the OS for a list of which packages were available on the device at any given time. In the interest of privacy and security Android 11 is reducing the package visibility to a default list of OS packages and along with the packages that are specified in the app's AndoridManifest.xml file. In order to utilize the system browser and brokered authentication on Android 11 you must first declare these packages so that they will be visible to the app.

Reviewer: Again, state the developer's goal first, *then* the what/why/how. Currently the reader has to read the entire paragraph only to learn its last sentence what this is really about (emphasis mine):

> **In order to utilize the system browser and brokered authentication on Android 11 you must** first declare these packages so that they will be visible to the app.

Same guidance goes for the H2 for this section, as well - what about Android 11 are we trying to support? If I'm scanning, I'll likely miss that this is about brokered auth with the system browser, specifically (because the H2 this H3 resides under is quite a bit further up the page).

> Apps targeting android 10 (API 29)

"Android" with a big-A.

> Adding the following to the AndroidManifest.xml will enable the application to authenticate with both the system browser and broker:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the application to authenticate with both the system browser and broker, add the following to the *AndroidManifest.xml*:
```

- Goal first, then what/how/why.
- Always use *active voice* instead of passive. Tell the developer exactly what to do to accomplish their goal instead of telling them that somebody _could_ do this. If they felt like it. Some day. 🙂

```xml
<!-- Required for API Level 30 to make sure the app can detect browsers and other apps where communication is needed.-->
<!--https://developer.android.com/training/basics/intents/package-visibility-use-cases-->
<queries>
  <package android:name="com.azure.authenticator" />
  <package android:name="{Package Name}" />
  <package android:name="com.microsoft.windowsintune.companyportal" />
  <!-- Required for API Level 30 to make sure the app detect browsers
      (that don't support custom tabs) -->
  <intent>
    <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW" />
    <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />
    <data android:scheme="https" />
  </intent>
  <!-- Required for API Level 30 to make sure the app can detect browsers that support custom tabs -->
  <!-- https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2020/07/custom-tabs-android-11#detecting_browsers_that_support_custom_tabs -->
  <intent>
    <action android:name="android.support.customtabs.action.CustomTabsService" />
  </intent>
</queries>
``` 

> Remember to replace ``{Package Name}`` with the application package name. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Replace `{Package Name}` with the application package name. 
```

- Remove double back-ticks
- Newlines after code blocks
- Cut unnecessary words whenever possible. Phrases like "Remember to," "Ensure that," and similar add extra words and should be cut. Instead, be super direct and tell them what to do.

> After adding all of the required elements to the manifest, it should look something like the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your completed manifest that $DOES_THING_HERE should appear similar to the following:
```

* Again, for people who scan (almost everyone), tell them right at the top what _this_ snippet is about (replace `$DOES_THING_HERE` with what it does, just in case that wasn't clear). ;)
* Missing colon. Working in the azure-docs-pr private repo gives you Acrolinx which can flag these things for you.
